[Music]
ten rare diseases that curse people with
superpowers and it's not kryptonite have
you caught a call
oh how unlucky all these nasty symptoms
again a runny nose non-stop coughing and
also it hurts to eat but you know what
quit nagging your illness will pass in
about a week but imagine the life of
those who suffer from chronic diseases
people tend to associate an illness with
something unpleasant and often dangerous
and they have their reasons to think so
but there are some diseases which unlike
a common cold look like superpowers at
least at first sight in this video
you'll get acquainted with some of them
these rare diseases not only leave
scientists confused but also make their
carriers similar to superheroes counting
down number 10 super memory this
condition is called hyperthymesia a
disruption of memory which causes a
person to remember all the events of
their life down to every last detail
there are just about 60 people in the
world who have been diagnosed with such
a unique disease the patient's can
describe any day of their lives in
amazing detail recalling even the
moments from their deep childhood
what's more such people can recite
lengthy extracts from books they've read
many years ago retell a news broadcast
of any day of any year you name it
do you think it's a gift these people
are lucky to enjoy mm-hmm think again
patients with hyperthymesia can alter
their memories or sugarcoat some
unpleasant moments they would prefer to
forget they literally forget nothing
BBC once told the story of Rebecca
sharukh an Australian writer who
remembered how she was wrapped in a pink
blanket at the tender age of 7
no not years not even months seven days
old her memory is truly unique she
recites long extracts from Harry Potter
without mixing up a single word however
the
woman doesn't consider her hyperthymesia
a superpower she constantly suffers from
headaches and insomnia and tires very
fast number 9 in sensibility - pain
inborn analgesia that's a scientific
name of the condition when a person
doesn't feel pain like at all
there is a surprising fact to think
about despite the rareness of this
disease as many as 40 cases of it have
been registered in one of the villages
in Sweden how can we explain such a
phenomenon hmm maybe it's the meatballs
what's your opinion share in the
comments at first sight you may think
that this could be a feature of real
x-men the syndrome doesn't influence
mental abilities or appearance a person
doesn't feel any pain
maximum other people's touches in real
life this condition is dangerous usually
our body informs us about some problems
it has sending us signals in the form of
pay a patient with analgesia might miss
the symptoms of the disease
they just won't hear the cries for help
of their body this illness is especially
dangerous for little children they can
hurt themselves while playing or
accidentally cause damage to the cornea
bite the tip of their tongue off or fail
to notice that their bone is broken do
you still think it's cool number eight
abilities to literally do anything
savant syndrome is a rare condition
which might be typical for people with
developmental disorders such as autism
or Asperger's syndrome patients with
such condition are extremely talented in
music drawing and painting calculations
cartography and constructing 3d models
savants can instantly provide you with
the result of multiplications of
three-digit numbers or to say what day
of the week will be the 5th of may 30 17
as an example Stephen Wiltshire a famous
British architectural artist with the
syndrome of savant managed to draw a
precise map of London after just one
flaw
over the city many people call savants
geniuses and they are partially right
people with this syndrome have real
talents in some fields but despite such
patches of genius patience display
inadequacy to the extent of the mental
deficiency do you remember Forrest Gump
from the novel of Winston groom yeah me
either
I just saw the movie well that is a
well-known example of a savant number 7
in sensitivity to cold besides people
who don't react to pain there are those
who are indifferent to cold a vivid
example is wim HOF a man from the
Netherlands who brought doctors to their
wit's end
the thing is wim is able to stand very
low temperatures he managed to spend 120
minutes in a pipe with freezing water
and ice has climbed to the top of Mount
Blanc wearing shorts and his pen no not
really
and even swims under the ice of frozen
lakes and rivers specialists considered
this man to be a unique phenomenon
though wim HOF himself believes that his
insensitivity to cold is the result of
the persistent training whatever it is
just imagine how much money you could
save on winter clothes if you had such
an ability number 6 complete absence of
fear
herb OTT wife disease is a rare genetic
disorder that leads to the complete lack
of fear only 300 cases are known and a
quarter of them have been registered in
South Africa the most famous patient got
the name the woman who knows no fear it
is an American woman SM these initials
have been given to her to maintain
anonymity the researchers use numerous
ways to frighten her she was given
poisonous spiders and snakes to hold the
scientists made her watch horror films
the woman was locked in a haunted house
however all their efforts were in vain
what is more SM told them about terrible
events from her life which still didn't
manage to scare her a knife attack in
the park at night a case of domestic
violence she barely survived the leader
of the research team was surprised to
find the woman still alive despite the
fact that she can't assess danger well
that sounds scary doesn't it number 5
the vampire disorder this disease has a
difficult scientific name but I will try
hippo hydronic ectodermal dysplasia
thank you very much but it's more widely
spread name describes it perfectly
people suffering from this condition
frequently have eerily pointed teeth
therefore looking similar to the
legendary blood feeding creatures from
horror films people with more prominent
symptoms of this illness are extremely
thin and pale their eyes are outlined
with dark circles their teeth are
typically pointed hair is absent and
they probably don't like steaks and I'm
not talking about the beef kind all
kidding aside the biggest problem for
such patients is not being mistaken for
a vampire the situation is much dire
they always have to check their
temperature and stay away from the
sunlight also it is vitally important to
avoid hot weather why so people with
this disorder don't have sweat glands as
you know these glands serve as a thermo
regulating mechanism of our
badi imagine what can happen if it is
broken by the way this is the most
typical syndrome of the disorder sounds
dramatic but for example after Michael
Berryman who suffers from the disease
made a career playing horror movie
characters anyway now you know where the
stories about vampires root from right
number four octopus people Polly Millia
is a strange disorder people suffering
from it are born with an unusual number
of limbs in some cases these limbs are
pretty useful in others they are non
functioning guess you wouldn't be overly
excited about an extra leg or arm but
what would you say about a bigger number
of extra limbs for example the case in
Pakistan was particularly shocking a
baby was born with as many as six legs a
parasitic twin was to blame
in fact the disease can affect any
extremities legs arms fingers stand in
some cases even penis
surely surgeries removing extra body
parts exist but surprisingly some
individuals refuse to be operating they
think these body parts fingers in
particular are useful and feel reluctant
to bid goodbye to them
number three stone man syndrome this
syndrome is genetic what's more it
progresses through life people with such
a disease have the soft tissues of their
bodies turning to bone the mutation of
the ACV are one gene responsible for the
development of different tissues of the
human body leads to terrible
consequences muscles turned to bone and
joints fused together if doctors attempt
to remove the bone surgically the body
starts to produce more bone tissue in
that area
luckily only one in two million people
suffers from this condition because
currently there is no existing treatment
number two werewolf syndrome do you
regularly feel irritated getting rid of
unwelcome hair growing on certain parts
of your body relax and take a deep
breath it can't be as bad as the problem
of those who suffer from hypertrichosis
the hair growth of such people is
abnormal all their bodies are covered
with thick hair it grows long and lush
even on their faces the reason for this
condition which has gained the nickname
werewolf syndrome is most likely to be
the genetic mutation however there have
been some cases where this disease has
been provoked by anti balding treatment
so be cautious with your wishes
surely usual methods of hair removal
shaving waxing or laser are perfectly
effective but even the best of them only
gives short lasting results and number
one foreign accent syndrome but any of
you have tried to speak with a foreign
accent at least once in your life have
you been successful and there are people
who don't even need to try hard their
countrymen will believe that their
tourists visiting the country on
vacation however it is no fun for
patients themselves they speak with a
foreign accent uncontrollably what is
even more surprising people who have
acquired French accent may have never
visited France before from time to time
such patients use several accents and
sometimes even simultaneously the most
common reason for this condition
is a head injury or a stroke well that
explains a few things the person with
this condition changes the way they
place their tongue during speaking the
most effective treatment in this case is
speech therapy so what disease have you
found the most shocking have you ever
met anybody with the conditions
described in this video write to us in
the comments
don't forget to hit the like button and
click subscribe to join us on the bright
side